Docs: Added translating page (#669)
files-community/Website: src/routes/docs/contributing/translating/+page.md

---
title: Translating Files
---

Translations for Files are done through the popular cloud based platform Crowdin. Anyone with a Crowdin account can translate strings and help improve existing strings.

## Getting started with Crowdin

- Any browser that work on Windows with the latest version
- A [Crowdin account](https://accounts.crowdin.com/register)
## Proofreading

Proofreading and approving strings is done by active community members, if you would like to proofread your language, please start a discussion on Crowdin, and we'll review your request at the earliest convenience.

## Screenshots

Where possible, screenshots have been added to provide more context on how strings are being used. Please note, Files is actively updated and it's possible that some screenshots are out of date.```

## Syncing changes with the Files app

> Your translations will usually be synced with the main Files project shortly before we release an updated version of Files to the stable branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Translations are usually synced with the main Files project shortly before releasing an update to the stable branch.
```

Please do care about:

- `other` tag has always to be defined in any languages.
- If there're tags that have the same value as `other` tag, they can be omitted.
- In case of a specific translation for a learned value, you can use "=NUMBER {TEXT}". Use only for values that are not specified using predefined tags in source language (`en-US`). This is most commonly used to define for the value `0`.

For example, Japanese doesn't have plural but `other` tag has to be defined though `one` and `other` tag have the same value in Japanese.

### Number

The purpose of the number type is to display different number values such as percentage, currency, and decimal numbers independently from the locale conventions for those. This enables adjustment of the message output to the number formats used in different locales.

The placeholder `{0, number}` only specifies the resulting number format, this is never translated, it must always be kept in the same form, but can be moved to positions that require translation.

Please do care about:

- The placeholder `#` indicates where the value will be inserted. This allows you to define a future position according to your translation.

### Remarks

> If you're not sure what tags should be added, don't worry. Click `i` button and see available tags, or click 'generate skelton' to see preview.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're not sure which tags should be added, you can click the `i` button to see available tags. You can also click 'generate skelton' to see preview.
```

---
title: Translating Files
---

> Files uses Crowdin for translation management, which is a cloud-based SaaS that supports globalization of a variety of application platforms.

Reviewer: - [ ] Translations for Files are done through the popular crowd based platform Crowdin. Anyone with a Crowdin account can translate strings and help improve existing strings.

Author: Done

## Getting started with Crowdin

- Any browser that work on Windows with the latest version

> - Crowdin account

Reviewer: Should we add a link so users can setup an account?

Author: Done

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> ## Proofread

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Proofreading
```

> Once you translate something proofreaders or maintainers hardly request to change, but if you have issue with approved translations, use Comments section in Crowdin Editor with the Issue check box marked. It'll bring your comments up to us.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you translate a string, proofreaders or maintainers rarely requests changes, but if you notice an issue with an approved translation, you can use the Comments section in Crowdin Editor with the Issue check box marked.
```

> If you translate Files on a regular basis and would like to have access to proofread your language, please start a discussion on Crowdin and we'll review your request at the earliest convenience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Proofreading and approving strings is done by active community members, if you're an active member and would like to proofread your language, please start a discussion on Crowdin, and we'll review your request at the earliest convenience.
```

## Screenshots

> A number of screenshots have been uploaded where possible to provide more context on how strings are being used. Please note, Files is actively updated and it's possible that some screenshots are out of date.```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Where possible, screenshots have been added to provide more context on how strings are being used. Please note, Files is actively updated and it's possible that some screenshots are out of date.```
```

> If you translate Files on a daily basis and want to proofread your language resources, we’ll verify and give you the role, so you can proofread and approve other’s translations of language(s) you proofread. Note that the role can be re-verified sometimes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you translate Files on a regular basis and would like to have access to proofread your language, please start a discussion on Crowdin and we'll review your request at the earliest convenience.
```

> ## Including updated strings in Files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Syncing changes with the Files app
```

> We add some screenshots where possible to help translators understand better under what context strings are used.
> When you're translating a string in Crowdin Editor, Crowdin automatically shows screenshots and highlightes target.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A number of screenshots have been uploaded where possible to provide more context on how strings are being used. Please note, Files is actively updated and it's possible that some screenshots are out of date.```

> ## See in Files
> 
> Maintainers often merge all translations that are approved right before a preview release or stable release published. Once gets merged and gets new release published, you can see translated words on your Windows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Including updated strings in Files

Your translations will usually be synced with the main Files project shortly before we release an updated version of Files to the stable branch.
```

## ICU message syntax

You may see some strings that have programmatic syntax.
It’s called ICU message syntax, which is the standard syntax advanced by Unicode (and the parallel ISO 10646 standard) for efficiently processing text in any language and for maintaining text data integrity

### Pluralization

Plural type is used to handle plural category variations, as each language has its own set of plural categories (for example, English has “one” and “other”, while Ukrainian has “one”, “few”, “many”, and “other”).

The following short tags are used to determine the plural categories:

- zero
- one (singular)
- two (dual)
- few (paucal)
- many (also used for fractions if they have a separate class)
- other (required—general plural form—also used if the language only has a single form)

In the Editor, you don’t have to manually add or delete plural categories to the translations you are making. Just click `Copy Source`, and the source string will be copied to the translation field with the number of plural categories right for the current target language.

> ![image](https://github.com/0x5bfa/Website/assets/62196528/830ef3f0-945b-4dae-8381-00805c7bd590)

Reviewer: Can you include this in the website repo?

Author: Sure! Are they should be light themed?

Reviewer: Either way is fine

Author: Done

- In case of a specific translation for a learned value, you can use "=NUMBER {TEXT}". Use only for values that are not specified using predefined tags in source language (`en-US`). This is most commonly used to define for the value `0`.

For example, Japanese doesn't have plural but `other` tag has to be defined though `one` and `other` tag have the same value in Japanese.

### Number

The purpose of the number type is to display different number values such as percentage, currency, and decimal numbers independently from the locale conventions for those. This enables adjustment of the message output to the number formats used in different locales.

The placeholder `{0, number}` only specifies the resulting number format, this is never translated, it must always be kept in the same form, but can be moved to positions that require translation.

Please do care about:

- The placeholder `#` indicates where the value will be inserted. This allows you to define a future position according to your translation.

### Remarks

If you're not sure what tags should be added, don't worry. Click `i` button and see available tags, or click 'generate skelton' to see preview.

> ![image](https://github.com/0x5bfa/Website/assets/62196528/a66edfbc-1bc1-42d0-8843-76af330fc861)

Author: Done

> ![image](https://private-user-images.githubusercontent.com/84145589/336040857-ee954a9b-ef7b-4cf5-8e5e-a6394ebabb1c.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![image](https://private-user-images.githubusercontent.com/84145589/336040857-ee954a9b-ef7b-4cf5-8e5e-a6394ebabb1c.png?jwt=eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJpc3MiOiJnaXRodWIuY29tIiwiYXVkIjoicmF3LmdpdGh1YnVzZXJjb250ZW50LmNvbSIsImtleSI6ImtleTUiLCJleHAiOjE3MTc1ODY1ODIsIm5iZiI6MTcxNzU4NjI4MiwicGF0aCI6Ii84NDE0NTU4OS8zMzYwNDA4NTctZWU5NTRhOWItZWY3Yi00Y2Y1LThlNWUtYTYzOTRlYmFiYjFjLnBuZz9YLUFtei1BbGdvcml0aG09QVdTNC1ITUFDLVNIQTI1NiZYLUFtei1DcmVkZW50aWFsPUFLSUFWQ09EWUxTQTUzUFFLNFpBJTJGMjAyNDA2MDUlMkZ1cy1lYXN0LTElMkZzMyUyRmF3czRfcmVxdWVzdCZYLUFtei1EYXRlPTIwMjQwNjA1VDExMTgwMlomWC1BbXotRXhwaXJlcz0zMDAmWC1BbXotU2lnbmF0dXJlPTA2ZTJkYThiYzQzM2Q4YzQwOTY5OTY1ZmM1Njc2Mjk1OWRlNzkxNmY5NThkZDU3MjU4MTQxNGI2NTAzNzNiNDYmWC1BbXotU2lnbmVkSGVhZGVycz1ob3N0JmFjdG9yX2lkPTAma2V5X2lkPTAmcmVwb19pZD0wIn0.jUppxsC03mbEii6T4l8s7_IHB6vtvCs8nyhNLFuoCvM)
```
This URL not existed, It will also have to be inserted from assets

Also, Crowdin shows an error message if your translation is incorrectly formatted or translated.

## Discussions

If you have conprehensive questions about Files translation, please use [Crowdin Discussions](https://crowdin.com/project/files-app/discussions). Note that when you post a discussion please describe what you'd like to discussion **in English**; otherwise it would be likely to be closed.

For questions regarding single translation, please use Comments area of each translation in Crowdin Editor. You can mark your comment as Issue and choose a reason why you want bring your issue to us. Once your issue is marked as Issue, others can pay attension since the comment will be colored to red.

## Develop with translated strings in the app

We have our own extension to handle ICU message syntax.
`public static Strings.ToLocalized(this source, param parameters);`
```cs
"ItemsCount".ToLocalized(itemsCount);
```
```cs

> var localized = string.Format("DeleteConfirmation".ToLocalized(), fileName, parentFolderName);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
var localized = "DeleteConfirmation".ToLocalized(fileName, parentFolderName);
```
It can do this too, and faster than string.Format

---
title: Translating Files
---

Translations for Files are done through the popular cloud based platform Crowdin. Anyone with a Crowdin account can translate strings and help improve existing strings.

## Getting started with Crowdin

- Any browser that work on Windows with the latest version

> - [Crowdin account](https://accounts.crowdin.com/register)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A [Crowdin account](https://accounts.crowdin.com/register)
```

> Once you translate a string, proofreaders or maintainers rarely requests changes, but if you notice an issue with an approved translation, you can use the Comments section in Crowdin Editor with the Issue check box marked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Translating Files
---

> # Translating

Reviewer: The `#` header is used for the title on line 2.

> # Translating

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: The `#` header is used for the title on line 2.

Author: Done.

Files uses Crowding for translation, which is cloud based SaaS supports globalization of any application on any platform.

## Requirements

> - Any browser that is the latest version.

Reviewer: We usually add a space underneath headers so let's add one here for consistency.

Author: Done.
